      CIVL: The Concurrency Intermediate Verification Language
                               v0.15

------------------------------ Overview -------------------------------

CIVL is a framework encompassing...

 * a programming language, CIVL-C, which adds to C a number of
   concurrency primitives, as well as the ability to define
   functions in any scope.  Together, these features make for
   a very expressive concurrent language that can faithfully
   represent programs using various APIs and parallel languages,
   such as MPI, OpenMP, CUDA, and Chapel. CIVL-C also provides
   a number of primitives supporting verification.
 * a model checker which uses symbolic execution to verify a
   number of safety properties of CIVL-C programs.   The model
   checker can also be used to verify that two CIVL-C programs
   are functionally equivalent.
 * a number of translators from various commonly-used languages
   and APIs to CIVL-C. (This part is still a work in progress.)

CIVL is developed by the Verified Software Laboratory at the
University of Delaware Department of Computer Science.
For more information, visit http://vsl.cis.udel.edu/civl

Developers:

Matthew B. Dwyer
Ziqing Luo
Michael Rogers
Stephen F. Siegel
Manchun Zheng
Timothy K. Zirkel

------------------------------- License -------------------------------

CIVL is open source software distributed under the GNU
General Public License.  However, the libraries used by CIVL
(and incorporated into the complete distribution) use various
licenses.  See directory licenses for the license of each component.

-------------------------- Updates from v 0.14 -------------------------

1. Fixed the bug that erroneously checking mpi processes statuses inside communicators

2. Fixed the bug that invalid command line inputs crash CIVL.

3. Fixed the bug that CIVL mis-handling float-to-int conversion.

4. Fixed the bug that Translation will ignore unused variable erroneously.

5. Fixed the bug that CIVL implementation misses extents information for literal array assignments.

6. Fixed the bug that CIVL didn't report array out of bound error.

7. Fixed performance bug dealing with MPI/link.

8. Fixed the bug that POR didn't recognize input array.

9. Fixed the bug that ABC can't print $forall.

10. Fixed the bug of linkage with bound variables.

11. Improving CIVL by get rid of unnecessary statements enabled from a nondeterministic statement.

12. Support compound literals for input variables.

13. Improves the performance of SARL which also makes CIVL run faster.

14. Makes sources of inserted texts by transformer more clear.

15. Support time.h

16. Implemented fflush()

17. Extended ABC to handle Cuda-c extensions.

18. Simplify array representation in SARL.

   
   
------------------------- Binary Installation -------------------------

For most users, this will be the easiest way to install and
use CIVL.  Developers should instead follow the instructions for
"Source Installation" below.

1. Install at least one of the theorem provers below.
The more you install, the more precise CIVL analysis will
be.  Note that CIVL only requires the binary executable
version of each prover; you can ignore the libraries, various
API bindings, etc.   You just need to ensure that
each binary executable is in your PATH when you run
"civl config".   The currently supported provers are:
  
   - CVC3, http://www.cs.nyu.edu/acsys/cvc3/download.html
     download the latest, optimized build with static library
     and executable for your OS.  Place the executable file
     "cvc3" in your PATH.  You can discard everything else.
     Alternatively, on some linux systems, CVC3 can be installed
     using the package manager via "sudo apt-get install cvc3".
     This will place cvc3 in /usr/bin.
     
   - CVC4,  http://cvc4.cs.nyu.edu/downloads/
   
   - Z3, http://z3.codeplex.com/SourceControl/latest

2. Install a Java 7 SDK if you have not already.  Go to

  http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/

for the latest from Oracle.  On linux, you can instead use
the package manager:

  sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk

3. Download the CIVL distribution from http://vsl.cis.udel.edu/civl.

4. Unzip and untar the CIVL distribution file if this
does not happen automatically.  This should result in a
folder named CIVL-TAG, where TAG is some version ID string.
This folder contains the following:

 - README   : this file
 - bin      : containing one executable sh script called "civl"
 - lib      : containing civl-TAG.jar
 - doc      : containing the manual and the tutorial of CIVL
 - emacs    : CIVL-C emacs mode and its installation instructions
 - licenses : licenses for CIVL and included libraries
 - examples : some example CIVL programs

5. Move CIVL-TAG into /opt.   Alternatively, if you don't want to
put it in /opt for some reason, put CIVL-TAG wherever you want
and edit the script (bin/civl) to reflect the chosen path.

6. Put the script bin/civl in your path however you like to
put things in your path.   Either move it to a directory
in your path, or create a symlink to it, or edit your .profile
or equivalent to put it in your path.

7. Type "civl config".  This should report that it found
the theorem provers you installed (and are in your PATH).
It should create a file called ".sarl" in your home directory
which you can also edit by hand.


------------------------- Source Installation -------------------------

We recommend using the Eclipse IDE for Java/EE developers.

0. Install theorem provers following the directions above.
Install Eclipse IDE for Java/EE developers if you have not already
done so.

1. Install an SVN plugin in Eclipse (such as Subversive) if you have
   not already.

2. Install prerequisite projects ABC, SARL and GMC. 
   Make sure that the three projects are put in the workspace
   directory where CIVL will be created. 

    a. Install the symbolic algebra and reasoning library SARL.
	   In Eclipse, select New Project...from SVN, use the archive 
	   svn://vsl.cis.udel.edu/sarl. After entering that, open it 
	   up and select the "trunk". After checking out trunk, name 
	   the project "SARL". Then follow the instructions in the INSTALL 
	   file for Eclipse installation. Build the sarl.jar from within 
	   Eclipse by right-clicking (or ctrl-clicking) on the build.xml 
	   file and selecting Run As->Ant Build.
	   
    b. Install the C front-end ABC. In Eclipse, 
	   select New Project...from SVN, use the archive 
	   svn://vsl.cis.udel.edu/abc. After entering that, open it 
	   up and select the "trunk". After checking out trunk, name 
	   the project "ABC". Then follow the instructions in the INSTALL
	   file for Eclipse installation. Build the abc.jar from within
	   Eclipse by right-clicking (or ctrl-clicking on OS X) on the
	   build.xml file and selecting Run As->Ant Build.
	
    c. Install the generic model checking utilities package GMC.
	   In Eclipse, select New Project...from SVN, use the archive 
	   svn://vsl.cis.udel.edu/gmc. After entering that, open it 
	   up and select the "trunk". After checking out trunk, name 
	   the project "GMC". Build the gmc.jar from within Eclipse
	   by right-clicking (or ctrl-clicking) on the build.xml file and
	   selecting Run As->Ant Build.

3. From within Eclipse, select New Project...from SVN. The archive is
   svn://vsl.cis.udel.edu/civl.  After entering that, open it up and
   select the "trunk". (It is simplest to just check out the trunk for
   the Eclipse project.)

4. Check out the trunk, and create the project using the New Java
   Project Wizard as usual, naming it "CIVL". The .project, .classpath,
   and other Eclipse meta-data are already in the SVN archive,
   saving you a bunch of work.

5. If you already have the VSL dependencies library, you may
   skip this step. Otherwise, download the tgz archive of VSL
   dependencies from http://vsl.cis.udel.edu/tools/vsl_depend
   Unzip the .tgz file and you will have the folder vsl.
   Move vsl to /opt (you might need to use sudo for this.
   Also, if you don't already have a directory called /opt, 
   you will have to create it with mkdir /opt).

   Suppose that you put the .tgz file (or .tar file if your browser
   unzipped it automatically to a .tar file) in the directory DOWNLOAD.
   You can use the following commands:

   		$ cd DOWNLOAD
   		$ tar xzf YourTgzOrTarFile vsl
   		$ sudo mv vsl /opt

   (Leave out the "x" in the tar command if the file was already
   unzipped.) Now you can type "ls /opt/vsl", and the output
   should be

   		README.txt    lib        licenses    src

6. If default_build.properties matches the configuration of your system,
   then you can skip this step. Otherwise, you may need to create a file 
   build.properties in the directory containing build.xml.
   Copy and paste the content from any file under properties, edit each 
   entry with the path configured in your system. The newly created file
   build.properties will automatically be used by ant to to build the .jar file.

7. Navigate to Preferences -> Java -> Build Path -> ClassPath 
   Variables, and then select New to create a classpath variable VSL, 
   and specify its value to be /opt/vsl.

8. Do a clean build.  Everything should compile.  Generate the civl.jar
   by right-clicking (or ctrl-click on OS X) the build.xml file and
   Run As->Ant Build. 
   
9. Somewhere on your system, create a plain text file containing
   exactly the following two lines:
   
#!/bin/sh
java -jar /Path/To/Your/workspace/CIVL/civl.jar $@
 
   where "/Path/To/Your/workspace" is replaced with the path
   to your Eclipse workspace directory.  Name this file "civl",
   put it in your PATH, and make it executable (chmod ugo+x civl).

10. From a terminal window, execute "civl config".  This should
    find the theorem provers in your PATH and create a file
    .sarl in your home directory.

11. In Eclipse, navigate to "Run->Run Configurations... Create a new
   JUnit configuration."
   Name it "CIVL Regression Tests". Select "Run all tests in the
   selected project..." and navigate to the folder "test/regress"
   in the CIVL project. The Test runner should be JUnit 4. Under the
   Arguments tab, type "-ea" (without the quotes) in the VM arguments
   area (to enable assertion checking).

12. An example of how to set up a single test from within Eclipse:
   create a new Run Configuration via the Run->Run
   Configurations... menu.  Create a new "Java Application"
   configuration.  Call it "CIVL barrier2".  The Project is CIVL.  The
   main class is edu.udel.cis.vsl.civl.CIVL.  Under the Arguments tab,
   set the Program arguments to 
   
       verify examples/concurrency/barrier2.cvl
   
   Modify the VM arguments as in the step above.  You should now be
   able to run the test by clicking "Run".
